<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Brain Facts: A Primer on the Brain and Nervous System</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" type="application/page-template+xml" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmt"><b>Know Your Brain, Know Yourself</b></p>
<p class="indent"><i>Brain Facts</i> serves as the companion publication to <i><a href="http://BrainFacts.org">BrainFacts.org</a></i> &#x2014; a public information initiative of The Kavli Foundation, the Gatsby Foundation, and the Society for Neuroscience.</p>
<p class="indent">Relaunched in the fall of 2017, the site affirms its continued commitment to neuroscience literacy and outreach to the public. The site&#x2019;s new design and structure is evidence of this renewed commitment to providing trusted content that tells the story of neuroscience.</p>
<p class="indent">Funding from the Wellcome Trust allowed <i><a href="http://BrainFacts.org">BrainFacts.org</a></i> to expand its capacity for multimedia through video animations and interactive puzzles that lead you through the Core Concepts &#x2014; the eight ideas that people need to know about their brain and nervous system &#x2014; as well as an interactive human brain model containing more than 50 neuroanatomical structures with descriptions.</p>
<p class="indent">Visit <i><a href="http://BrainFacts.org">BrainFacts.org</a></i> and engage in an exploratory journey behind the neuroscience of everyday life.</p>
<p class="indentt">As much as <i>Brain Facts</i> aims to inspire future scientists, researchers, and innovators, its primary purpose is to help you understand your brain &#x2014; because when you know your brain, you know yourself.</p>
<p class="indent">As you peruse this new edition of <i>Brain Facts</i>, you will notice that in addition to incorporating Core Concepts, we have expanded the book to include chapters on the teenage brain as well as on thinking and decision-making. There are more than 30 images from neuroscience that will enhance your understanding of everything from neurogenesis to neural networks. In addition, the glossary has been rewritten and reviewed to include nearly 80 new key terms.</p>
</body>
</html>