<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Brain Facts: A Primer on the Brain and Nervous System</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" type="application/page-template+xml" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmtitle"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="122" id="page_122"/><a id="glo" href="06_Contents.xhtml#glo">G<small>LOSSARY</small></a></p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl1" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl1"><span class="blue">Acetylcholine</span></a> A critical neurotransmitter that controls functions such as memory, attention, sleep, heart rate, and muscular activity.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl2" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl2"><span class="blue">Action Potential</span></a> An electrical charge that travels along the axon to the neuron&#x2019;s terminal, where it triggers the release of a neurotransmitter. This occurs when a neuron is activated and temporarily reverses the electrical state of its interior membrane from negative to positive.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl3" href="20_Chapter13.xhtml#gl3"><span class="blue">Addiction</span></a> Loss of control over drug intake or compulsive seeking and taking of drugs, despite adverse consequences.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl4" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl4"><span class="blue">Adenosine</span></a> A neurochemical that inhibits wakefulness, serving the purpose of slowing down cellular activity and diminishing arousal. Adenosine levels decrease during sleep.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl5" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl5"><span class="blue">Adrenal Gland</span></a> An endocrine organ that secretes hormones. The outer layer (adrenal cortex) secretes the stress hormone cortisol. The inner portion (adrenal medulla) secretes epinephrine and norepinephrine in concert with the activation of the sympathetic nervous system in the &#x201C;fight or flight&#x201D; response.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl6" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl6"><span class="blue">Alzheimer&#x2019;s Disease (AD)</span></a> A major cause of dementia in the elderly, this neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by the death of neurons in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and other brain regions. The earliest symptoms of the disease include forgetfulness; disorientation as to time or place; and difficulty with concentration, calculation, language, and judgment. In the final stages, individuals are incapable of self-care and may be bedridden.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl7" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl7"><span class="blue">Amnesia</span></a> A memory impairment usually caused by brain damage or disease, or by drugs such as some anesthetics. People with amnesia may be unable to recall events from the past, form new memories, or both.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl8" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl8"><span class="blue">Amygdala</span></a> A structure in the forebrain that is an important component of the limbic system and plays a central role in emotional learning, particularly within the context of fear.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl9" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl9"><span class="blue">Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)</span></a> Commonly known as Lou Gehrig&#x2019;s disease, ALS causes motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord to disintegrate, resulting in loss of control of voluntary muscle movements such as walking.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl10" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl10"><span class="blue">Analgesic</span></a> A drug that relieves pain without causing a loss of consciousness.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl11" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl11"><span class="blue">Anxiety</span></a> A state of heightened arousal characterized by intense worry.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl12" href="12_Chapter05.xhtml#gl12"><span class="blue">Aphasia</span></a> Disturbance in language comprehension or production, often as a result of a stroke.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl13" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl13"><span class="blue">Apoptosis</span></a> Programmed cell death induced by specialized biochemical pathways, often serving a specific purpose in the development of an animal.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl14" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl14"><span class="blue">Arousal</span></a> A physiological state involving changes in the body and brain that motivate behavior and enable response to stimuli.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl15" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl15"><span class="blue">Astrocyte</span></a> A star-shaped glial cell in the central nervous system that nourishes neurons; regulates the formation, maintenance, and pruning of synapses; and contributes to the blood-brain barrier.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl16" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl16"><span class="blue">Attention</span></a> A state of arousal in which the brain&#x2019;s sensory processing is directed at a limited number of stimuli. Voluntary (endogenous) attention is a conscious decision to focus on a particular stimulus. Involuntary (exogenous) attention is an unplanned focus on a change in the environment, such as a loud noise or sudden movement.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl17" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl17"><span class="blue">Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)</span></a> A condition characterized by excessively inattentive, hyperactive, or impulsive behaviors.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl18" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl18"><span class="blue">Auditory Nerve</span></a> A branch of the vestibulocochlear nerve that transmits auditory information from the cochlea of the ear to the brain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl19" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl19"><span class="blue">Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)</span></a> A set of conditions characterized, in part, by impaired social communication and interaction, and narrow, obsessive interests or repetitive behaviors.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl20" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl20"><span class="blue">Autonomic Nervous System</span></a> A part of the peripheral nervous system responsible for regulating the activity of internal organs. It includes the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl21" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl21"><span class="blue">Axon</span></a> The fiber-like extension of a neuron by which it sends information to target cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl22" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl22"><span class="blue">Axon Terminal</span></a> The ends of axons where neurotransmitters are released to target cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl23" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl23"><span class="blue">Basal Ganglia</span></a> A group of interconnected structures located deep in the brain that play an important role in voluntary movement, motor skill learning, and habits. These structures include the caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, globus pallidus, and substantia nigra.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl24" href="19_Chapter12.xhtml#gl24"><span class="blue">Benzodiazepines</span></a> A class of drugs that enhance activity of the brain&#x2019;s primary inhibitory neurotransmitter, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), to produce sedative and anti-anxiety effects. Benzodiazepines are often prescribed to treat anxiety disorders and insomnia.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl25" href="24_Chapter17.xhtml#gl25"><span class="blue">Blood-Brain Barrier</span></a> A protective membrane composed of tightly packed endothelial cells lining the brain&#x2019;s capillaries and highly specialized astrocytes, which controls the passage of certain molecules into and out of the brain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl26" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl26"><span class="blue">Brain Waves</span></a> Oscillating patterns of brain activity that can be detected and recorded using electroencephalography (EEG).</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl27" href="24_Chapter17.xhtml#gl27"><span class="blue">Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF)</span></a> A neurotrophic peptide that supports the growth and survival of neurons.</p>
<p class="glo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="123" id="page_123"/><a id="rgl28" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl28"><span class="blue">Brainstem</span></a> The major route by which the forebrain sends information to and receives information from the spinal cord and peripheral nerves. The brainstem includes the midbrain, pons, and medulla, and it controls, among other things, respiration and the regulation of heart rhythms.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl29" href="12_Chapter05.xhtml#gl29"><span class="blue">Broca&#x2019;s Area</span></a> A region of the frontal lobe &#x2014; usually the left hemisphere &#x2014; that governs speech production.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl30" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl30"><span class="blue">Cell Body</span></a> Also called the soma, the part of a neuron that contains the nucleus (with DNA) and the organelles, but not the projections such as the axon or dendrites.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl31" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl31"><span class="blue">Central Nervous System</span></a> The brain and spinal cord.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl32" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl32"><span class="blue">Cerebellum</span></a> A large structure located at the roof of the hindbrain that helps to control the coordination of movement by making connections to the pons, medulla, spinal cord, and thalamus. It also may be involved in aspects of motor learning.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl33" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl33"><span class="blue">Cerebral Cortex</span></a> The wrinkled, outermost layer of the cerebrum consisting primarily of neuron cell bodies.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl34" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl34"><span class="blue">Cerebrum</span></a> The largest part of the human brain associated with higher order functioning, such as thinking, perceiving, planning, and understanding language, as well as the control of voluntary behavior.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl35" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl35"><span class="blue">Circadian Rhythms</span></a> A cycle of behavior or physiological change lasting approximately 24 hours.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl36" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl36"><span class="blue">Cochlea</span></a> A snail-shaped, fluid-filled organ of the inner ear responsible for converting sound into electrical potentials to produce an auditory sensation.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl37" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl37"><span class="blue">Cognitive Behavioral Therapy</span></a> A form of counseling used to identify and change negative thought patterns that can contribute to anxiety and mood disorders.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl38" href="23_Chapter16.xhtml#gl38"><span class="blue">Computational Neuroscience</span></a> A field of neuroscience research that uses computer programs and algorithms to analyze information about the brain, and develops mathematical models to explain brain function.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl39" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl39"><span class="blue">Cones</span></a> A primary receptor cell for vision located in the retina. It is sensitive to color and is used primarily for daytime vision.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl40" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl40"><span class="blue">Corpus Callosum</span></a> The large bundle of nerve fibers linking the left and right cerebral hemispheres.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl41" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl41"><span class="blue">Cortisol</span></a> A hormone manufactured by the adrenal cortex. In humans, cortisol is secreted in the greatest quantities before dawn, readying the body for the activities of the coming day.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl42" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl42"><span class="blue">Cranial Nerves</span></a> Twelve pairs of nerves that can be seen on the bottom surface of the brain. Some of these nerves transmit sensory information; some control the movement of face, head, and neck muscles; others transmit information to internal organs to regulate functions such as blood pressure and heart rate.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl43" href="14_Chapter07.xhtml#gl43"><span class="blue">Critical Period</span></a> A period of heightened plasticity in brain development when certain experiences and sensory inputs are required for the formation of functional brain circuits.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl44" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl44"><span class="blue">Declarative Memory</span></a> Also called explicit memory, a type of memory that can be consciously retrieved. It includes memory of facts (semantic memory) and memory of personal experiences (episodic memory).</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl45" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl45"><span class="blue">Default Mode Network</span></a> A collection of brain regions activated during quiet rest.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl46" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl46"><span class="blue">Dementia</span></a> A decline in cognitive ability that interferes with day-to-day functioning.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl47" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl47"><span class="blue">Dendrite</span></a> A treelike extension of the neuron cell body. The dendrite is the primary site for receiving and integrating information from other neurons.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl48" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl48"><span class="blue">Depolarization</span></a> A change in a neuron&#x2019;s membrane potential in which the cytoplasm becomes more positively charged. Neurons must depolarize beyond a certain threshold to generate an action potential.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl49" href="19_Chapter12.xhtml#gl49"><span class="blue">Depression</span></a> A psychiatric disorder characterized by sadness, hopelessness, pessimism, loss of interest in life, reduced emotional well-being, and abnormalities in sleep, appetite, and energy level.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl50" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl50"><span class="blue">Dopamine</span></a> A catecholamine neurotransmitter present in three circuits of the brain: one that regulates movement; a second, thought to be important for cognition and emotion; and a third that regulates the endocrine system. Deficits of dopamine in the motor circuit are associated with Parkinson&#x2019;s disease. Abnormalities in the second circuit have been implicated in schizophrenia.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl51" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl51"><span class="blue">Down Syndrome</span></a> A condition that results from the presence of an extra copy of chromosome 21. This genetic anomaly is associated with physical and developmental characteristics, including mild to moderate intellectual disabilities; low muscle tone; and an increased risk of congenital heart defects, respiratory problems, and digestive tract obstruction.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl52" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl52"><span class="blue">Dyslexia</span></a> A pronounced difficulty with reading despite normal intelligence, education, and motivation.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl53" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl53"><span class="blue">Electroencephalography (EEG)</span></a> A technology used to record electrical activity of the human brain in response to a variety of stimuli and activities.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl54" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl54"><span class="blue">Endorphins</span></a> Neurotransmitters produced in the brain that generate cellular and behavioral effects like those of morphine.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl55" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl55"><span class="blue">Epilepsy</span></a> A disorder characterized by repeated seizures, which are caused by abnormal excitation of large groups of neurons in various brain regions. Epilepsy can be treated with many types of anticonvulsant medications.</p>
<p class="glo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="124" id="page_124"/><a id="rgl56" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl56"><span class="blue">Epinephrine</span></a> A hormone released by the adrenal medulla and specialized sites in the brain. During times of stress, epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is quickly released into the bloodstream. It then serves to put the body into a general state of arousal, which enables it to cope with the challenge.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl57" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl57"><span class="blue">Episodic Memory</span></a> A type of declarative memory consisting primarily of memory of personal experiences.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl58" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl58"><span class="blue">Estrogen</span></a> A female sex hormone produced primarily in the ovaries.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Excitation</span> A change in the electrical state of a neuron that is associated with an enhanced probability of action potentials.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl60" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl60"><span class="blue">Excitatory</span></a> A type of neuron (or neurotransmitter) that excites target neurons and increases the likelihood of their firing an action potential.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl61" href="12_Chapter05.xhtml#gl61"><span class="blue">Executive Function</span></a> Higher-level processing that takes place in the brain&#x2019;s prefrontal cortex. Executive function comprises impulse control, working memory, and mental flexibility.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl62" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl62"><span class="blue">Forebrain</span></a> A region of the developing brain that goes on to become the cerebral hemispheres and major parts of the limbic system.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl63" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl63"><span class="blue">Fovea</span></a> A small, pitted area in the center of the retina where visual acuity is highest, due to a high density of cones.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl64" href="18_Chapter11.xhtml#gl64"><span class="blue">Fragile X Syndrome</span></a> A genetic condition resulting from a mutation in the FMR1 gene that causes intellectual disability.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl65" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl65"><span class="blue">Frontal Lobe</span></a> One of the four subdivisions of the cerebral cortex. The frontal lobe has a role in controlling movement and in the planning and coordinating of behavior.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl66" href="12_Chapter05.xhtml#gl66"><span class="blue">Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)</span></a> A technology that uses magnetic fields to detect activity in the brain by monitoring blood flow.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl67" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl67"><span class="blue">Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)</span></a> An amino acid neurotransmitter in the brain whose primary function is to inhibit the firing of nerve cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl68" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl68"><span class="blue">Glia</span></a> Specialized cells that nourish and support neurons.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl69" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl69"><span class="blue">Glucocorticoid Hormones</span></a> Hormones that produce an array of effects in response to stress. Some of the actions of glucocorticoids help to mediate the stress response, while other, slower actions counteract the primary response to stress and help to reestablish homeostasis.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl70" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl70"><span class="blue">Glutamate</span></a> An amino acid neurotransmitter that acts to excite neurons. Glutamate stimulates N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA). AMPA receptors have been implicated in activities ranging from learning and memory to development and specification of nerve contacts in developing animals. Stimulation of NMDA receptors may promote beneficial changes, whereas overstimulation may be a cause of nerve cell damage or death in neurological trauma and stroke.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl71" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl71"><span class="blue">Gray Matter</span></a> Portions of the brain that are gray in color because they are composed mainly of neural cell bodies, rather than myelinated nerve fibers, which are white. It includes the cerebral cortex as well as subcortical structures.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl72" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl72"><span class="blue">Growth Cone</span></a> A distinctive structure at the growing end of most axons. It is the site where new material is added to the axon.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl73" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl73"><span class="blue">Hair Cells</span></a> Sensory receptors in the cochlea that convert mechanical vibrations to electrical signals; they in turn excite the 30,000 fibers of the auditory nerve that carry the signals to the brainstem.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl74" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl74"><span class="blue">Hindbrain</span></a> The most posterior part of the brain, comprising the pons, medulla, and cerebellum.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl75" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl75"><span class="blue">Hippocampus</span></a> A seahorse-shaped structure located within the brain and considered an important part of the limbic system. One of the most studied areas of the brain, it is involved in learning, memory, and emotion.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl76" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl76"><span class="blue">Histamine</span></a> A compound with multiple functions in the body. In the brain, histamine acts as a neurotransmitter to stimulate arousal. Local inflammatory responses in the body trigger the release of histamines from immune cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl77" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl77"><span class="blue">Homeostasis</span></a> The normal equilibrium of body function.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl78" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl78"><span class="blue">Hormones</span></a> Chemical messengers secreted by endocrine glands to regulate the activity of target cells. They play a role in sexual development, calcium and bone metabolism, growth, and many other activities.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl79" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl79"><span class="blue">Huntington&#x2019;s Disease</span></a> A genetic disorder characterized by involuntary jerking movements of the limbs, torso, and facial muscles, often accompanied by mood swings, depression, irritability, slurred speech, and clumsiness.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl80" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl80"><span class="blue">Hyperpolarization</span></a> A change in a neuron&#x2019;s membrane potential in which the cytoplasm becomes more negatively charged and therefore less likely to fire an action potential.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl81" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl81"><span class="blue">Hypothalamus</span></a> A complex brain structure composed of many nuclei with various functions, including regulating the activities of internal organs, monitoring information from the autonomic nervous system, controlling the pituitary gland, and regulating sleep and appetite.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Inhibition</span> A change in the electrical state of a neuron that is associated with a decreased probability of firing an action potential.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl83" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl83"><span class="blue">Inhibitory</span></a> A type of neuron (or neurotransmitter) that prevents a target neuron from firing.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl84" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl84"><span class="blue">Insomnia</span></a> A sleep disorder in which people have trouble falling and/or staying asleep.</p>
<p class="glo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="125" id="page_125"/><span class="blue">Interneuron</span> A neuron that exclusively signals another neuron.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl86" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl86"><span class="blue">Involuntary Movement</span></a> A movement that occurs without conscious control, such as a reflex.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl87" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl87"><span class="blue">Ion Channel</span></a> Proteins embedded in the cell membrane that allow ions or other small molecules to enter or leave the cell.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl88" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl88"><span class="blue">Limbic System</span></a> A group of structures deep within the brain involved in motivation and emotion. The hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, and hypothalamus are all a part of the limbic system.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl89" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl89"><span class="blue">Long-Term Memory</span></a> The final phase of memory, in which information storage may last from hours to a lifetime.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl90" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl90"><span class="blue">Long-Term Potentiation (LTP)</span></a> A long-lasting increase in synaptic strength resulting from an increased number of neurotransmitter receptors on the post-synaptic neuron.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl91" href="14_Chapter07.xhtml#gl91"><span class="blue">Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)</span></a> A technique that uses magnetic fields to create a high-quality, three-dimensional image of organs and structures inside the body. This technology is noninvasive and does not expose the body to X-rays or other radiation.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Magnetoencephalography (MEG)</span> A technique that can quantitatively measure the strength of activity in various regions of the brain at millisecond resolution.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl93" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl93"><span class="blue">Medulla</span></a> Also called the medulla oblongata, a structure of the brainstem that controls basic functions like swallowing, breathing, and heart rate.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl94" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl94"><span class="blue">Melatonin</span></a> A hormone produced in the pineal gland that regulates responses to light-dark cycles and induces sleep at night.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl95" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl95"><span class="blue">Membrane Potential</span></a> The voltage difference between the inside and outside of a neuron. The typical membrane potential of a neuron at rest is -70mV.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl96" href="12_Chapter05.xhtml#gl96"><span class="blue">Mentalization</span></a> The ability to understand the mental states and thoughts of others and oneself.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl97" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl97"><span class="blue">Microglia</span></a> Glial cells in the central nervous system that function as resident immune cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl98" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl98"><span class="blue">Midbrain</span></a> The most anterior segment of the brainstem. With the pons and medulla, the midbrain is involved in many functions, including regulation of heart rate, respiration, pain perception, and movement.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl99" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl99"><span class="blue">Migration</span></a> The process whereby new neurons find their proper position in the brain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl100" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl100"><span class="blue">Mitochondria</span></a> Small cylindrical organelles inside cells that provide energy for the cell by converting sugar and oxygen into special energy molecules, called adenosine triphosphate (ATP).</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Mood</span> A general state of mind and emotional disposition.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl102" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl102"><span class="blue">Motor Cortex</span></a> A specialized region in the cortex involved in the planning and execution of movement.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Motor Neuron</span> A neuron that carries information from the central nervous system to muscles.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl104" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl104"><span class="blue">Motor Unit</span></a> A functional unit made up of an alpha motor neuron and all of the muscle fibers it contains and controls, ranging from a few to a hundred or more.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl105" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl105"><span class="blue">Myelin</span></a> Compact fatty material that surrounds and insulates the axons of some neurons and accelerates the transmission of electrical signals.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl106" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl106"><span class="blue">Narcolepsy</span></a> A sleep disorder resulting from the loss of orexin neurons in the hypothalamus that causes pronounced sleepiness during the day.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl107" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl107"><span class="blue">Nerve Growth Factor (NGF)</span></a> A substance whose role is to guide neuronal growth during embryonic development, especially in the peripheral nervous system. Nerve growth factor also probably helps to sustain neurons in adults.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl108" href="22_Chapter15.xhtml#gl108"><span class="blue">Neurodegeneration</span></a> The progressive destruction and loss of neurons. Alzheimer&#x2019;s, Parkinson&#x2019;s, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are examples of neurodegenerative diseases.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl109" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl109"><span class="blue">Neurogenesis</span></a> The production and growth of new nerve cells during development and, in select brain regions, throughout life.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl110" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl110"><span class="blue">Neuromodulator</span></a> A chemical messenger that alters the strength of a synapse by modifying the production and/or response to neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters, hormones, and immune molecules can all function as neuromodulators.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl111" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl111"><span class="blue">Neuron</span></a> A nerve cell specialized for the transmission of information and characterized by long, fibrous projections called axons and shorter, branchlike projections called dendrites.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl112" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl112"><span class="blue">Neurotransmitters</span></a> Chemical messengers released by neurons at a synapse for the purpose of relaying information to other cells.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Neurotransmitter Receptors</span> Proteins embedded in the postsynaptic cell membrane that bind neurotransmitters to alter the cell&#x2019;s excitability.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl114" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl114"><span class="blue">Nociceptors</span></a> Nerve endings that signal the sensation of pain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl115" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl115"><span class="blue">Nodes of Ranvier</span></a> Unmyelinated gaps in an axon&#x2019;s myelin sheath along which electrical impulses travel.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl116" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl116"><span class="blue">Nondeclarative Memory</span></a> Also called implicit or procedural memory, a type of long-term memory that is stored and retrieved without conscious effort.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl117" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl117"><span class="blue">Norepinephrine</span></a> A catecholamine neurotransmitter produced both in the brain and in the peripheral nervous system. Norepinephrine is involved in arousal and sleep regulation, mood, and blood pressure.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl118" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl118"><span class="blue">Nucleus Accumbens</span></a> A region at the base of the forebrain that is a part of the basal ganglia and is important in motivation and reward.</p>
<p class="glo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="126" id="page_126"/><a id="rgl119" href="19_Chapter12.xhtml#gl119"><span class="blue">Obsessive-compulsive Disorder</span></a> An anxiety disorder characterized by uncontrollable, recurring thoughts (obsessions) and repetitive behaviors (compulsions) that attempt to mitigate the obsessions.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl120" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl120"><span class="blue">Occipital Lobes</span></a> One of the four subdivisions of the cerebral cortex. The occipital lobe plays a role in processing visual information.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl121" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl121"><span class="blue">Olfactory Bulbs</span></a> Round, knoblike structures of the brain responsible for processing the sense of smell. Specialized olfactory receptor cells are located in a small patch of mucous membrane lining the roof of the nose. Axons of these sensory cells pass through perforations in the overlying bone and enter two elongated olfactory bulbs lying on top of the bone.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl122" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl122"><span class="blue">Oligodendrocyte</span></a> A type of glial cell in the central nervous system that forms myelin.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl123" href="20_Chapter13.xhtml#gl123"><span class="blue">Opioids</span></a> Substances that bind to opioid receptors in the brain to relieve pain. Endorphins are a type of endogenous opioid produced in the brain. Natural and synthetic opioids, such as morphine and codeine, can be prescribed to treat pain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl124" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl124"><span class="blue">Optic Chiasm</span></a> The place in the brain where the optic nerves meet and some axons cross over to the opposite (contralateral) hemisphere in animals with binocular vision.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl125" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl125"><span class="blue">Optic Nerve</span></a> The bundle of neurons that transmit information from the retina to the brain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl126" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl126"><span class="blue">Orexin</span></a> A hormone produced in the hypothalamus that stimulates arousal.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl127" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl127"><span class="blue">Oxytocin</span></a> A hormone produced in the hypothalamus and released by the pituitary gland that initiates the release of milk from mammary glands and stimulates uterine contractions. It is also involved in love and social bonding.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl128" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl128"><span class="blue">Pain</span></a> An unpleasant sensory and emotional experience often signaling tissue damage, or the potential for damage.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl129" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl129"><span class="blue">Paralysis</span></a> The loss of muscle function in all or part of the body, usually due to nerve damage.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl130" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl130"><span class="blue">Parasympathetic Branch</span></a> A branch of the autonomic nervous system concerned with the conservation of the body&#x2019;s energy and resources during relaxed states.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl131" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl131"><span class="blue">Parietal Lobes</span></a> One of the four subdivisions of the cerebral cortex. The parietal lobe plays a role in sensory processes, attention, and language.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl132" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl132"><span class="blue">Parkinson&#x2019;s Disease (PD)</span></a> A movement disorder caused by the death of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, located in the midbrain. Symptoms include slowness of movement, muscular rigidity, and walking and balance impairment.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Peripheral Nervous System</span> The nerves outside of the brain and spinal cord.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl134" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl134"><span class="blue">Photoreceptors</span></a> A nerve ending, cell, or group of cells specialized to sense or receive light.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl135" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl135"><span class="blue">Pineal Gland</span></a> A small endocrine gland in the brain that produces melatonin.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl136" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl136"><span class="blue">Pituitary Gland</span></a> An endocrine organ closely linked with the hypothalamus. In humans, the pituitary gland is composed of two lobes and secretes several different hormones that regulate the activity of other endocrine organs throughout the body.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl137" href="14_Chapter07.xhtml#gl137"><span class="blue">Plasticity</span></a> The ability of the brain to modify its neural connections to adapt to challenges in the environment.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl138" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl138"><span class="blue">Pons</span></a> A part of the hindbrain that, with other brain structures, controls respiration and regulates heart rhythms. The pons is a major route by which the forebrain sends information to and receives information from the spinal cord and peripheral nervous system.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Positron Emission Tomography (PET)</span> A method of measuring brain function based on the detection of radioactivity emitted when positrons, positively charged particles, undergo radioactive decay in the brain. Computers then build three-dimensional images of changes in blood flow based on the amount of radiation emitted in different brain regions. The more brain activity, the more vivid the picture that is created.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Postsynaptic Neuron</span> In a synapse, the neuron receiving chemical messages.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl141" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl141"><span class="blue">Prefrontal Cortex (PFC)</span></a> A region at the front of the frontal lobe involved in the brain&#x2019;s higher-level functions such as planning, decision-making, working memory, and inhibitory control.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Presynaptic Neuron</span> In a synapse, the neuron transmitting chemical messages to a target neuron.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl143" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl143"><span class="blue">Prostaglandins</span></a> Small lipid molecules that enhance nociceptor sensitivity to increase pain and prevent further tissue damage.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl144" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl144"><span class="blue">Rapid Eye Movement (REM) Sleep</span></a> The part of the sleep cycle when active dreaming takes place. It is characterized by neocortical EEG waves similar to those observed during waking. This state is accompanied by paralysis of the body&#x2019;s muscles; only the muscles that allow breathing and control eye movements remain active.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl145" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl145"><span class="blue">Reflexes</span></a> Considered the simplest and most fundamental movements, they are relatively fixed, automatic muscle responses to particular stimuli, such as the slight extension of the leg when a physician taps the knee with a small rubber hammer.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl146" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl146"><span class="blue">Retina</span></a> A multilayered sensory tissue that lines the back of the eye and contains the receptor cells to detect light.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl147" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl147"><span class="blue">Reuptake</span></a> A process by which released neurotransmitters are absorbed for later reuse.</p>
<p class="glo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="127" id="page_127"/><a id="rgl148" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl148"><span class="blue">Rods</span></a> A sensory neuron located in the periphery of the retina. The rod is sensitive to light of low intensity and is specialized for nighttime vision.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl149" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl149"><span class="blue">Saltatory Conduction</span></a> The process by which action potentials &#x201C;jump&#x201D; along the unmyelinated nodes of Ranvier, speeding electrical transmission.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl150" href="19_Chapter12.xhtml#gl150"><span class="blue">Schizophrenia</span></a> A chronic disorder characterized by psychosis (e.g., hallucinations and delusions), flattened emotions, and impaired cognitive function.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Schwann Cell</span> A type of glial cell in the peripheral nervous system that forms myelin.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs)</span> Drugs that block the reuptake of serotonin, increasing its availability in the synapse. SSRIs are used to treat depression and other disorders.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl153" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl153"><span class="blue">Semantic Memory</span></a> A type of declarative memory that involves memory of facts.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Serotonin</span> A monoamine neurotransmitter believed to play many roles, including but not limited to temperature regulation, sensory perception, and the onset of sleep. Neurons using serotonin as a transmitter are found in the brain and gut. Several antidepressant drugs are targeted to brain serotonin systems.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl155" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl155"><span class="blue">Short-Term Memory</span></a> A phase of memory in which a limited amount of information may be held for several seconds or minutes.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl156" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl156"><span class="blue">Somatosensory Cortex</span></a> A region of the parietal lobe responsible for processing touch and pain signals from the body.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl157" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl157"><span class="blue">Spinal Cord</span></a> A bundle of nerve fibers running through the vertebral column that primarily functions to facilitate communication between the brain and the rest of the body.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl158" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl158"><span class="blue">Stem Cells</span></a> Unspecialized cells that renew themselves for long periods through cell division.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl159" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl159"><span class="blue">Stress</span></a> Any external stimulus that threatens homeostasis. Many kinds of stress have a negative effect on the body, but some kinds can be helpful.</p>
<p class="glo"><span class="blue">Striatum</span> A cluster of neurons deep within the brain divided into ventral and dorsal regions. The ventral striatum consists of the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle, while the dorsal striatum consists of the caudate and putamen. The striatum is a part of the basal ganglia and is involved in reward processing.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl161" href="21_Chapter14.xhtml#gl161"><span class="blue">Stroke</span></a> A block in the brain&#x2019;s blood supply. A stroke can be caused by the rupture of a blood vessel, a clot, or pressure on a blood vessel (as may be caused by a tumor). Without oxygen, neurons in the affected area die, and the part of the body controlled by those cells cannot function. A stroke can result in loss of consciousness and death.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl162" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl162"><span class="blue">Substantia Nigra</span></a> A region of the midbrain involved in movement and reward. Parkinson&#x2019;s disease destroys the dopamine-producing neurons in this region.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl163" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl163"><span class="blue">Suprachiasmatic Nucleus (SCN)</span></a> A small group of nerve cells in the hypothalamus that express clock proteins, which go through a biochemical cycle of about 24 hours. This sets the pace for daily cycles of activity, sleep, hormone release, and other bodily functions.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl164" href="17_Chapter10.xhtml#gl164"><span class="blue">Sympathetic Branch</span></a> A branch of the autonomic nervous system responsible for mobilizing the body&#x2019;s energy and resources during times of stress and arousal.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl165" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl165"><span class="blue">Synapse</span></a> A physical gap between two neurons that functions as the site of information transfer from one neuron to another.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl166" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl166"><span class="blue">Synaptic Plasticity</span></a> The ability of synapses to alter their strength by changing their size, shape, number of receptors, and amount of neurotransmitter released.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl167" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl167"><span class="blue">Synaptic Pruning</span></a> The elimination of weak or non-functioning synapses to fine-tune neural circuitry.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl168" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl168"><span class="blue">Taste Buds</span></a> A sensory organ found on the tongue.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl169" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl169"><span class="blue">Temporal Lobes</span></a> One of the four major subdivisions of each hemisphere of the cerebral cortex. The temporal lobe functions in auditory perception, speech, and complex visual perceptions.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl170" href="16_Chapter09.xhtml#gl170"><span class="blue">Testosterone</span></a> A sex hormone produced primarily in the testes but also in lower amounts in the adrenal cortex and ovaries.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl171" href="08_Chapter01.xhtml#gl171"><span class="blue">Thalamus</span></a> A structure consisting of two egg-shaped masses of nerve tissue, each about the size of a walnut, deep within the brain. The key relay station for sensory information flowing into the brain, the thalamus filters out information of particular importance from the mass of signals entering the brain.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl172" href="13_Chapter06.xhtml#gl172"><span class="blue">Trophic Factors</span></a> Small proteins in the nervous system that are necessary for the development, function, and survival of specific groups of neurons.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl173" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl173"><span class="blue">Vagus Nerve</span></a> The tenth cranial nerve, it transmits signals from the brain to the heart, lungs, and digestive tract.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl174" href="10_Chapter03.xhtml#gl174"><span class="blue">Voluntary Movement</span></a> A motor action that is consciously planned and executed.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl175" href="09_Chapter02.xhtml#gl175"><span class="blue">Wernicke&#x2019;s Area</span></a> A region in the temporal lobe responsible for comprehension of language.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl176" href="15_Chapter08.xhtml#gl176"><span class="blue">White Matter</span></a> The part of the brain that contains myelinated nerve fibers. The white matter gets its color from myelin, the insulation covering nerve fibers.</p>
<p class="glo"><a id="rgl177" href="11_Chapter04.xhtml#gl177"><span class="blue">Working Memory</span></a> A temporary type of declarative memory, the ability to keep a piece of information &#x201C;in mind.&#x201D; It is limited to a small amount of data and, unless transferred to long-term memory, decays within a few seconds.</p>
</body>
</html>